Bayer Project - AWC-level WASH Gaps:

1.	Infrastructure shortages: In the majority of AWCs, handpumps are used as the major sources of water, which are of an old type. Leaking and rusted pipes were also found in the process of the installation of the solar submersible motors, which led to technical delays. Lack of boundary walls in most of AWCs sites can subject water purifiers and solar panels to destruction.
2.	Non-Functional Sanitation: At a few AWCs, the non-functional toilets have a non-functional design, where there is no supply of water, making them unusable, and thus directly limiting the promotion of hygiene.
3.	Community O&M Sustainability: Although 7 Boond Banks (community repair funds) are already functioning in Lucknow (22 Jal Sakhis are currently providing support to AWCs) O&M group sustainability needs long term follow up and organized strengthening.
4.	Hygiene Behaviour Change Effectiveness: WASH Warriors conduct hand hygiene and safe water handling trainings, including Training of Trainers (ToT) model that cascades to 160 AWC representatives. The value of these behavioural interventions has never been tested in the discipline, though.

Viega Project-level WASH Problems:

5.	FSTP Technical Weaknesses: FSTP on 9 beds that relates to the buffer holes shows poor quality of the output water because of the insufficient filtration of the septic tank effluent which is a weakness that is being rectified.
6.	Community Governance Gaps: The project will focus on the Urban Local Body (ULB) employees of O&M having capacity gaps in their sustainability, and the project will be based on the Water Management committees (WMCs). Objection remedy through helpline 1533 is yet to be developed.
7.	Gender Inclusion: WMC now has 60% female and 40% male representation; more women in leadership needs to be a programme priority, which will have to be validated in the field.
8.	Maturity of Waste Management: Material Recovery Facility (MRF) with the Conveyer-Segregator-Hydraulic Press system is in place but its effect on waste diversion behaviour and community involvement needs to be evaluated separately.
